>> Brian Holt: And now I have this really
cool calculator project I wanna share
with the world.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go to
GitHub.
>> Brian Holt: To me it's gonna take
me directly to a logged in page because
I have logged into my GitHub account.
But you should sign up for
Git if you have not already, GitHub.
Just so you know what that looks like.
I'm gonna open this in
a anonymous browser.
And this is what it looks like, you
should pick a username and have an email,
etc, etc.
Once you get here, I want you to
click the plus sign up here and say,
New Repository, okay?
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna call it the fpm-example,
Frontend Masters, and
this is an example.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
I'm gonna create a public repository.
>> Brian Holt: As for
the intro to web dev.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, public repository.
I'm going to ignore the README.
You have to be a premium member
to get private repositories,
but don't be afraid of putting public
repositories out that are garbage.
If you look at mine, I have 100 repos and
above, 75 of them are garbage.
So that's fine, it's okay.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So,
how do someone going
into your GitHub account.
That's wanting to offer you a job,
potential and flare,
how do the model through the garbage
versus what's actually good?
>> Brian Holt: I think people would have
different opinions on it.
So you have pin repositories.
So if you go to my like page right here.
>> Brian Holt: This is my profile page.
Look at that beautiful smile.
[LAUGH] These are the ones
that I'm more proud of.
So these ones I've
pinned to my repository.
Anything else is like I have, you have no
guarantees that it's gonna be anything
good.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so I'm gonna say create a repository,
I'm not gonna check that.
So I'm gonna create this repository.
Repository is like one atomic project.
So that's what they call them,
is repositories, or repos, often,
okay?
>> Brian Holt: Here, what I'm gonna do,
is I'm gonna come here, and
I'm just going to copy this command right
here.
>> Brian Holt: It doesn't get in remote at
origin git, so a remote is,
Git is decentralized.
So if you and
I were working on the same project,
in theory we don't have
to go through a server.
I could push to your computer.
Most people don't use it like that,
most people have a centralized
place to put their code.
But you don't necessarily have to.
That's why there's this concept of remote,
it's because you could have
multiple people and your all push in
to each other and stuff like that,
it's just not very common, okay?
So git remote at origin,
then I'm gonna add this
URL right there.
>> Brian Holt: And
I'm gonna say that, okay?
So now if I say git remote -vv,
you can see that I have this new remote to
push to, so it's a place to push my code.
>> Brian Holt: So
what I'm gonna do now is cuz I
have commits to push, right?
I'm gonna say git push origin master.
Master is the name of the branch.
If you wanna learn more about
branching and stuff like that,
definitely go check out Nina's course or
read another tutorial on this.
But right now we haven't
branched off with anything and
the default name of the branch is Master.
It's the master branch, right?
It's the overall master of the project.
So I'm gonna say git push origin master,
and
its gonna take my code and
push it up to GitHub.
So now, if you go here and refresh the
page, you can see that I have this repo.
And you can click in here and
you see my calculator.js and
all that kinda stuff.
>> Brian Holt: So
definitely keep all of your
code on GitHub, I do for sure.
It's really nice because if I ever lose
my laptop, which I have done before,
I can get it off GitHub.
If I wanna like collaborate with you,
you can click up here and fork.
Which is the name of like,
I'm interested in modifying your code for
my purposes or I wanna improve your codes
so that I can use it or things like that.
You fork it so that you can modify,
because you can't come in and
change my code,
you have to ask me to change my code.
But if you fork it,
you can modify your own copy of it.
That's what forking is.
You can also come in here and star it,
which is like a social feature.
I think this is neat, star, right?
And then you can watch it as well which
is a way of like if you're interested in
like the progress of a repo,
you can watch it.
It will give you notifications.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
So I would say this is like the modern
programmers resume, is what their GitHub
looks like.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Pull request.
So let's say I find a bug, right?
For example, you find a typo with this
particular course on this course website,
which there are a lot, I've seen them.
[LAUGH] If you go to
mygithub/bthold/intrawebdevv2,
that's where all of the code for
this particular website lives.
It lives here, right?
So if you come in here as like,
hey this is broken, you can even see here.
People have been opening
pull requests today.
Thank you to the people who have
been opening pull requests.
So if I click on here and
I say, fix typos on line 64.
Good person.
So I can see that Brandon, thanks Brandon.
Notice that these edits
might be needing makes here.
So he fixed some of the repos, so
I can actually go in here and
see the commits that he has made.
So I can go here and see what is changed.
So here I said image instead of imagine,
so he fixed that cuz he read my mind.
And I'm pretty sure three has two Hs,
Brandon.
So I'll let it slide this time but, yeah.
So obviously these are useful things,
I should fix these.
So what I'm gonna do right now is I'm
gonna come over here and I'm just gonna
say merge pull request, because his code
is valid and it should be in the repo.
So I said merge pull request and
confirm merge.
>> Brian Holt: Now,
my repo is updated with his changes,
it's all merged together.
And I'm gonna say thank you.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: I can spell.
>> Brian Holt: So that's how
the process works for
incorporating new code, right?
So what he did is he forked it,
he modified it and
he opened what's called the pull request.
And then I looked at his pull request and
I merged it into my code.
>> Speaker 3: Does he work with you or
is that just for fun?
>> Brian Holt: He's just a nice person,
I've never met Brandon.
>> Speaker 3: He's a first time
contributor.
>> Brian Holt: To this repo.
Yeah [LAUGH].
>> Brian Holt: So,
really cool right though?
It's collaborative,
we get to make all this stuff together.
And there's just nice people out there
doing things because they're nice
people.
>> Brian Holt: But
that's the promise of Open Source, right?
Like I'm putting all
this stuff out there for
free and
in return people make it better for me.
So that's kinda of your reward for
putting stuff out there for free.
It's because other people get to see,
it's okay, if you do it this way,
it gets better.
In fact,
I put out a little thing here called,
if I go back to my profile.
>> Brian Holt: Called post
CSS color blind, which is a little
repo for changing your website to
see whether a color blind person
would see your website, right?
So down here you can see
example of here is how your CSS
would look if you
are normal seeing person.
This is what it would look like if
you had this particular disability.
And here is what it would like if
you can't see any color, right?
So this was something I threw together on
a weekend because I was curious if I could
do it, really cool.
And then, I just got busy and
I couldn't update it.
There's an awesome guy named Ben Briggs
who works on post CSS, itself.
And he came in and fixed all of my stuff
for me, and opened a giant pull request,
and fixed everything, right?
So these kinda things happen like
if you invest in a community,
the community invest in you,
which I think it's really cool.
>> Brian Holt: In particular I think
the JavaScript community
is pretty friendly.
So it's something that's you should
definitely try and get into.
And don't have a lot of fear,
just go out and open pull requests and
sometimes they'll say hey,
if you fix this then I'll merge it.
Or sometimes they'll say,
I'm not going in this direction, so
thanks for opening it but
I'm going this way.
Or you can see here if you
go back to my other repo.
>> Brian Holt: People open issues,
so this person says hey,
I'm getting a lot of issues.
I'm seeing these kinda things and
I can come down here and
say, maybe try this, right?
So that's what issues are, they're just
saying, hey, I don't know why this is
working or this is broken or
maybe you should add this feature.
It's kind of collaboration on
the future of your projects.
So GitHub is great.
You should definitely get in on it.
It doesn't, I mean there's also GitLab,
there's also Bitbucket,
there are several places
you can put your code.
There's Visual Studios Team Services which
is the Microsoft version of it as well,
so.
>> Speaker 3: I have a quick question.
>> Brian Holt: Sure.
>> Speaker 3: So with all this,
how it's open sourced,
it's really nice because then everyone
can get together and work on something.
But with the ability to fork it,
what's to stop somebody,
what if I work on something for
ten hours, okay?
And I put it on GitHub and
I'm really proud of it and
gonna show it to a future boss maybe.
What's to stop somebody from
forking it and being like ha ha,
this is mine, I did this?
>> Brian Holt: The answer to your question
is nothing, but there are kind of
things you can do to put in place.
So for example,
something that I do if you come here
to intro to web dev and you look here.
I did put license on this, so
you can put legal license to your project.
This one in particular is
attribution non-commercial.
So I spent a ton of time on
this particular course and
it would be really crappy if someone
else made a lot of money off of it.
So this code and this content you can
share for free forever to everyone.
But if you make money off of it,
I can sue you, right?
So you can attach license to things,
so that's your retribution.
Most people, so
the code that I have on this, so
the content is licensed
differently than the code.
The code is Apache 2.0 and
that's, you can modify this,
you can say that I wrote this,
I don't care.
I actually really don't care.
I spent a bunch of time
on writing the code but
that's not the important part to me.
So for the most part, all the codes that
I put out into the world, you are free to
fork, bastardize, claim, make money
off of all these things are fine.
The only thing you can't do is sue me.
[LAUGH] And
that's what these license provide for you.
So then I wanna answer that
your question in multiple ways.
It's you can't do things to prevent
people from forking your code.
You can actually disable the Fork
button on here as well, if you want to.
They can still get it but,
>> Brian Holt: It's
a sharing environment, right?
So I make a lot of money at my job working
on top of things that people have built,
right?
Like I work on Linux a ton,
which is the work of a ton of people, and
I don't pay them anything, right?
So the only thing I can do to pay
that community back is to release
things that I do for free.
So whenever I can I open source,
cuz I believe in the community,
I believe that it moves humanity forward.
As cheezy as that sounds.
Does that answer your question?
>> Brian Holt: Other
questions?
>> Speaker 4: How do you go about
getting a license?
>> Brian Holt: You can go to
choosingalicense.com.
Choosealisence.com, which is also from
GitHub, they put up this website.
I want simple permissive,
it's gonna give you the MIT license.
If I'm concerned about patents which is, I
always do this one, personally Apache 2.0.
And I care about sharing.
So you might be more interested in
something like this, which is you can fork
this and you can modify it but
you have to open source anything you do.
Legally you have to open source it.
You can close source anything with mine,
so that's why I always choose Apache 2.0.
But if you Fork Bash for example,
which is what we've been using,
you're actually legally obligated to
open source any changes you make.
I'm not a lawyer so do not take
any advice from me whatsoever, but
that is my understanding thereof.
>> Brian Holt: There's
more choices down here
if you're interested.
But these are kind of the three
common ones that I see.
I don't actually really see
very many people do copyleft,
which is what you would call this.
I see most people do MIT, and
I think Apache is a superior license, so
I personally choose that,
but MIT is far more common.